This past week, I have been working to make my game more interesting. I've updated not only the format, but by the end, it should also, if all goes well, have a more interesting plot. 

When I was considering possibilities of how to add a story to the game, my mind immediately flew to the great drama of Pontius' return to Cluny. Not only is it exciting and dramatic, but it is also a period of Cluniac history that is shrouded in confusion and mystery. Nobody knows exactly what happened - which makes it both, in my opinion, more challenging and less challenging to transform into a narrative. The downside, of course, is that nobody knows exactly what happened. What exactly were Pontius' motives? Why did he abdicate? Why did he come back? Nobody knows! So while this makes it difficult to research, it also gives me more freedom to innovate. That is, I can make stuff up, it's not like they know what happened anyway! 

Precisely because there is so much confusion around this period, I thought it would be interesting to explore in a game. Of course, as a necessity, my version of the results are simply a guess and may be far removed from what actually happened. Since Pontius has been so villianized in the past, I tend to feel a little sorry for him and take a more sympathetic view. #PontiusDidNothingWrong!!! Besides, I think it's so much more dramatic if, as Stroll suggests, he was falsely set up by the pope! It turns him into more of a tragic hero, and the story becomes so much more romantic. But was he a tragic hero? Well, who can tell. In my opinion, nobody's really a hero.

But what I would like to explore in my story, and I don't know if I will succeed, is how the narrative around Pontius changed. Because to this day we are still living with the legacy of a demonized portrait of him formed after he lost, and I think that this narrative must have been very different while he was still abbot, and even before he returned. It seems he had many supporters even after Peter was elected abbot. What I would like to portray in the game is the confusion around his abdication, whether or not he really abdicated and whether he was still the abbot or not. This will continue on his return, where you are forced to take a side. You can choose to either support him or oppose him at his trial at Rome. Either way, he will lose and be disgraced. I think there's something dramatic about trying to support him but ultimately losing. I think that's how it happened anyway, he was set up to lose. The game will enforce that. 

The final part of the game will take place many years after the trial, and by this point the narrative around Pontius will have changed. He will be demonized and Peter the Venerable will be beatified. I'm excited to write the dialogue for Peter of Piotiers haha, it's gonna be great. But having experienced the events they are talking about through the game, I hope to make the player confront this narrative and realize that it is by no means the only portrayal of Pontius out there. Was Pontius the villain? This is what I want them to wonder after they've finished the game. 

Thus, the story of the game will take this format. It takes place over the course of 4 days, seperated by different years. 

The first day is while Pontius is abbot. This establishes a status quo. I don't think that life with Pontius as an abbot was really noticably different than any other time, at least at a more basic level of everyday life. In fact, I want to show his mundanity - at this point, he was just the abbot of Cluny. 

The second day will be the election of Hugh of Marcigny. Some monks will be upset over the election, claiming that Pontius is still the rightful abbot. This sets the stage for the later schism. The player will get to vote for the next abbot, but Hugh will win no matter who they vote for.

The third day is Pontius' return. Before he comes back, the monks will be split. Some are excited because they hear he's returning, others support Peter. Then at some point, Pontius comes back, the order of the day is disturbed, and we end the day. The rest will be described in narration. Pontius is summoned to Rome, etc, and you can choose to go with them, supporting either Peter or Pontius. 

Here we will have a brief interlude which presents the trial, and Pontius will be disposed and humialted. 

The final day will many many years later. It begins with a summary of what happened to Pontius, and then you begin the day like normal. All the monks are excited because it's easter. I think easter is a fitting ending because it sums up the Christian hope - and ultimately the monastic hope. Things may suck on this earth, but there's hope for a new one. I think that's a good ending. With this in mind, you die, you're judged for your sin, and you either go to heaven or purgatory. The end!

So that's the plan. Hopefully I'll be able to fulfill it!
