January 31st– Time Management
For the first part of the week I was feeling really tired and accomplished very little, especially regarding Cluny sorts of things. It was really only until Thursday that I began to feel back in the swing of things.  Sometimes this happens to me, and sometimes it gets me a little frustrated. Why can’t I get things done? I should be working on projects, but I don’t. I think part of the problem is, especially for this project, is that it’s so enormously huge that it’s difficult for me to start. I’m not sure where to begin so I end up putting things off. So I think what I need to think about coming up is how to manage my time and not put this project off to the last minute like I often do.  I was thinking about time management quite a lot this weekend, trying to get to the root of my procrastination in order to better fix it. When I was a kid, I would often leave school work to the last minute. Because the thing was, I was able to put in the minimal amount of effort into things and still get good grades. I never took notes or anything during class, I barely even studied, but somehow I breezed through grade school without any trouble at all. So I think that part of the problem is that in the past I’ve never needed a strict discipline of working on something to get by. I got rewarded for my procrastination with good marks anyway, so what does it matter?  But to a certain extent... grades have never been important to me. I like to do things well for their own sake. And so in my last year in high school and university, I’ve learnt that it really isn’t good to leave an essay to the last minute, because quite frankly it’s not going to be any good. Even if I do make up some passable sort of nonsense, I know that with more research and more knowledge, it could have been better.  This year, surprisingly, I have been doing amazingly well in regards to getting to work on assignments early. And I began to wonder why that might be? I think part of it is that since I’ve switched to Computer Science, I’ve been enjoying my assignments a lot more. Last year, it actually took an enormous amount of effort to get started on essays. I don’t really know why it is. But to a certain extent... I just couldn’t bring myself to care... Arguing about this or that thing which happened a long time ago in the past... who cares really? It’s kind of cold to say but I think that’s why I had so much trouble. But it was also because I felt I had nothing interesting to add on the topics. I mean, a million people have written essays on why Rome fell or why Napoleon failed and things like that. But in order to make a really novel argument, you need a lot of sources and a lot of background knowledge, and what university student has the time to do all that? So I felt frustrated because I didn’t have the skills or times to write a phd level essay, but yet I had to write something. And in a way I felt writing anything less original than that would be a failure, and so I kept putting it off because I thought no matter what I wrote wouldn’t be good enough. And I think that’s the largest part of why I procrastinated. I was just afraid to fail.  
Doing computer science assignments are different. History is large and vague and arguments are subjective. But an algorithm either works or it doesn’t. And when it doesn’t work (and at first it probably won’t work), there are so many ways you can rethink the problem or work around it or do things a different way. I love the feeling of tackling a big problem and then finding up ways to make the computer do the things that you want. Seeing something so clearly in your head and then watching it play out exactly as you planned is an amazing feeling! But with history... you never know if you’re right or not.  So I thought for this project, I should combine what I like doing already with history, and that way it won’t feel so onerous to work on. And I think I feel a lot more excited and willing to work on this project than if it were an essay. But at the same time, familiar feelings are coming back to me. Every one’s expecting so much. What if it’s no good?  It’s just so much to tackle at once. And before I know it I’m watching silly anime videos on youtube for half an hour.  But I know that I’ve become better this year. I’ve improved miles from where I used to be in getting projects started on time. It’s difficult to start things sometimes, but if I don’t start, then I won’t ever do well. I’d rather get started earlier and put more effort into it. If sports manga has taught me anything it’s if you train really hard, then you’ll definitely get better! And while you’ll probably get knocked out of the first tournament, you’ll definitely make it the second time around! Even if you lose, you still have to stand up and keep training, because next time you’ll definitely win! Well, I didn’t just learn that from sports manga but it’s kind of been on my mind lately haha.  Okay, but what can I do? Even though I feel like these so called blog posts are just me rambling (and is anyone even reading these things?) I think it’s important for me to write them just in order to focus and collect myself. I need to take stock of what I’ve been doing in regards to this project and keep planning for the future. So in order to keep on track I’ll try to keep writing something here every week. Lately I’ve been trying to get into a regular schedule of things, and I find it’s helpful if you set these ultimatums for yourself. Like every Friday at 2:00 I’ve been going jogging. Anyway just wanted to mention that because I’m pretty proud that I’ve actually kept it up. And even though I was supposed to write this on Friday, I’ve still managed to get this out before the weekend. 
Okay, but focus, focus! I got distracted again! Okay, what do I still need to do? What have I done? Well, last Wednesday night I managed to pump out a really quick test run of a monk’s life. It came out more or less like I had imagined, but having an actual working program makes me realize how much more fine-tuning it needs! I’d really like to get a better command system, although that will take a lot more thinking about. I’d like to put it into a function, but I’m not sure how it’d work... The whole program needs a lot more thinking about.  But what I’d really like to start soon is the research, because that’s also the thing I like doing the least. I got a few books out from the library last Thursday on woman’s history, and I plan to read that tomorrow after class. I also talked to Sarah and she said she’ll let me know what she’s got on woman’s history once she gets some more stuff on woman’s history. We also talked about the feudal system a little more in class, and I’d really like to read a bit more on that soon if I can as well, because I’m not really sure what 
to do for the secular portion of the game. Actually, I’d like to make a simulation, but feudal society is so complex, I wonder if it’s even possible? So that’s another thing that I need to plan out.  This Thursday, we will be talking about the game a little in class. That’s good, but I should probably prepare something. Since I’m also doing the discussion, I think I’ll go over everything I’d like to say the Wednesday before, so I’ll make sure to set aside some time for that.  
So the plan: 
Monday -research Cluny, reading response, career planning, uncle is visiting so get home by 5:00, volleyball intramurals 
Tuesday – finish stats assignment, finish programming assignment 3, study logic, study for comp sci test, play volleyball
Wednesday – design algorithms for programming assignment 4, take a nap, go over what to say for Cluny class tomorrow, go to gym, plan algorithms for feudal system, discrete structures assignment
Thursday – find some books from the library maybe, code assignment 4, choir 
Friday – finish assignment 4, discrete structures assignment, cluny blog, go for a jog, go to bible study Saturday – finish everything I haven’t finished yet. Hand in comp sci 3 assignment Sunday –church, rest Well, maybe that’s too many extraneous details for a blog on github. Anyway, I think it’s helpful to have a rough plan for the week.  
