Preamble

So this is my attempt at doing open research. 
Last year, I took a couse with Shawn Graham at Carleton University, and he encouraged us to make our research public, to blog about our progress and basically make our work open and transparant. Or something like that, maybe I wasn't paying complete attention. Because at the time, I didn't really buy it. 
It was not so much I disagreed with what he was saying, per se. It was more of a mental block. Boldly posting your work online, that was something I simply couldn't do. Boldness was something entirely lacking from my character. I didn't have any pride or confidence in my work, and without this, I was unable to sincerely commit everything I did for the world to see. I imagined the people of the world reading the work of a miserable person like me, when they could be spending it doing more important things instead, and thought it would be better, in the end, if I did not waste their time. What did I have to offer the world? It was better not to bother. 
Since then, however, I have grown a little more confident. I am stronger now than I was before. It wasn't an easy journey, nor is it complete, but I am prepared now to keep striving forward to the goal. Last year, I only half-heartedly comitted to doing digital history, and results were lack-luster. I was disapointed in myself for a while, but eventually... I stood up and realized that the past isn't the present. 
Now that I have a new project, I want to try again and do it properly. 
So this time I'm going to try my hardest. Give it your all! Never give up! Effort to the max! My goal is nationals! (I've been reading a lot of sports manga lately). Ganbarimasu~!
Okay, now that that's out of my system, let's get down to business. 
I am currently taking a fourth year seminar on the Abbey of Cluny. This is where I will be posting everything related to my final project which, simply put, is going to be a video game about Cluny! 
At the very least, I hope to post weekly updates on my progess, as well as include my current plans and outlines for the games for everyone to discuss. Any code will be added here as well. I encourage everyone to help contribute~. Let's work hard together~~!
